en/SUMMARY.md, before:

# Summary

## Beginners Guide

[Introduction](index.md)

- [Basic Usage](getting-started/index.md)
    - [About Cocos Creator](getting-started/introduction/index.md)
    - [Installing and Launching](getting-started/install/index.md)
    - [Dashboard](getting-started/dashboard/index.md)
    - [Hello World!](getting-started/helloworld/index.md)
    - [Project Structure](getting-started/project-structure/index.md)
    - [Editor Panels](editor/index.md)
        - [Scene](editor/scene/index.md)
        - [Hierarchy](editor/hierarchy/index.md)
        - [Assets](editor/assets/index.md)
        - [Inspector](editor/inspector/index.md)
        - [Console](editor/console/index.md)
        - [Preferences](editor/preferences/index.md)
        - [Project Settings](editor/project/index.md)
        - [Main Menu](editor/mainMenu/index.md)
        - [Tool Bar](editor/toolbar/index.md)
        - [Editor Layout](editor/editor-layout/index.md)
        - [Preview & Debugging](editor/preview/index.md)
    - [Support](getting-started/support.md)
    - [Caution!](getting-started/attention/index.md)
- [Quick Start: First Game](getting-started/first-game/index.md)
- [Upgrade Guide](release-notes/index.md)
    - [Cocos Creator 3.0 Upgrade Guide](release-notes/upgrade-guide-v3.0.md)
    - [Cocos Creator 3.0 Material Upgrade Guide](material-system/effect-2.x-to-3.0.md)

## Basic Workflow

- [Scene Creation](concepts/scene/index.md)
    - [Scene Assets](asset/scene.md)
    - [Nodes and Components](concepts/scene/node-component.md)
    - [Coordinate Systems and Transformations](concepts/scene/coord.md)
    - [Node Hierarchy and Rendering Order](concepts/scene/node-tree.md)
    - [Build a Scene Image Using the Scene Panel](concepts/scene/scene-editing.md)

- [Asset System](asset/index.md)
    - [Asset Workflow](asset/asset-workflow.md)
    - [Images](asset/image.md)
        - [Textures](asset/texture.md)
        - [Sprite Frames](asset/sprite-frame.md)
            - [Auto Trim for SpriteFrame](ui-system/components/engine/trim.md)
        - [Atlas](asset/atlas.md)
        - [Auto Atlas](asset/auto-atlas.md)
        - [Label Atlas](asset/label-atlas.md)
    - [Prefab](asset/prefab.md)
    - [Fonts](asset/font.md)
    - [Audio](asset/audio.md)
    - [Material](asset/material.md)
    - [Model](asset/model/mesh.md)
        - [Importing Models Exported from DCC Tools](asset/model/dcc-export-mesh.md)
        - [glTF](asset/model/glTF.md)
    - [Spine Skeletal Animation](asset/spine.md)
    - [DragonBones Skeletal Animation](asset/dragonbones.md)
    - [TiledMap](asset/tiledmap.md)

- [Scripting Guide and Event System](scripting/index.md)
    - [Programming Language Support](scripting/language-support.md)
    - [Scripting Basics](scripting/script-basics.md)
        - [Script Creation](scripting/setup.md)
        - [Operating Environment](scripting/basic.md)
        - [Decorator](scripting/decorator.md)
        - [Property Attributes](scripting/reference/attributes.md)
        - [Life Cycle Callbacks](scripting/life-cycle-callbacks.md)
    - [Using Scripts](scripting/usage.md)
        - [Access Nodes and Components](scripting/access-node-component.md)
        - [Common Node and Component Interfaces](scripting/basic-node-api.md)
        - [Create and Destroy Nodes](scripting/create-destroy.md)
        - [Scheduler](scripting/scheduler.md)
        - [Components and Component Execution Order](scripting/component.md)
        - [Loading and Switching Scenes](scripting/scene-managing.md)
        - [Obtaining and Loading Assets](scripting/load-assets.md)
        - [tsconfig Configuration](scripting/tsconfig.md)
    - [Advanced Scripting](scripting/reference-class.md)
    - [Events](engine/event/index.md)
        - [Listening to and Launching Events](engine/event/event-emit.md)
        - [Node System Events](engine/event/event-builtin.md)
        - [Global System Events](engine/event/event-input.md)
        - [Event API](engine/event/event-api.md)
    - [Modules](scripting/modules/index.md)
        - [Engine Modules](scripting/modules/engine.md)
        - [External Module Usage Case](scripting/modules/example.md)
        - [Module Specification](scripting/modules/spec.md)
    - [Plugin Scripts](scripting/external-scripts.md)

- [Cross-platform Game Publish](editor/publish/index.md)
    - [About the Build Panel](editor/publish/build-panel.md)
    - [General Build Options](editor/publish/build-options.md)
    - [Publish to Web Platforms](editor/publish/publish-web.md)
    - [Publish to Native Platforms](editor/publish/native-options.md)
        - [Setup Native Development](editor/publish/setup-native-development.md)
        - [Debugging JavaScript on Native Platforms](editor/publish/debug-jsb.md)
    - [Publish to Mini Game Platforms](editor/publish/publish-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to HUAWEI AppGallery Connect](editor/publish/publish-huawei-agc.md)
        - [Publish to Alipay Mini Games](editor/publish/publish-alipay-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to ByteDance Mini Games](editor/publish/publish-bytedance-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to Cocos Play](editor/publish/publish-cocos-play.md)
        - [Publish to Huawei Quick Games](editor/publish/publish-huawei-quick-game.md)
        - [Publish to OPPO Mini Games](editor/publish/publish-oppo-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to vivo Mini Games](editor/publish/publish-vivo-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to Xiaomi Quick Games](editor/publish/publish-xiaomi-quick-game.md)
        - [Publish to Baidu Mini Games](editor/publish/publish-baidu-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to WeChat Mini Games](editor/publish/publish-wechatgame.md)
            - [WeChat Engine Plugin](editor/publish/wechatgame-plugin.md)
            - [Access to the WeChat PC Mini Games](editor/publish/publish-pc-wechatgame.md)
        - [Access to Open Data Context](editor/publish/build-open-data-context.md)
        - [Mini Game Subpackage](editor/publish/subpackage.md)
    - [Publish from the Command Line](editor/publish/publish-in-command-line.md)
    - [Build Process with FAQ](editor/publish/build-guide.md)
    - [Custom Project Build Process](editor/publish/custom-project-build-template.md)

## Function Modules

- [Graphics Rendering](module-map/graphics.md)
    - [Render Pipeline](render-pipeline/overview.md)
        - [Built-in Render Pipeline](render-pipeline/builtin-pipeline.md)
    - [Camera](editor/components/camera-component.md)
    - [Lighting](concepts/scene/light.md)
        - [Physically Based Lighting](concepts/scene/light/pbr-lighting.md)
        - [Lights](concepts/scene/light/lightType/index.md)
            - [Directional Lights](concepts/scene/light/lightType/dir-light.md)
            - [Spherical Lights](concepts/scene/light/lightType/sphere-light.md)
            - [Spotlights](concepts/scene/light/lightType/spot-light.md)
            - [Ambient Light](concepts/scene/light/lightType/ambient.md)
        - [Additive Per-Pixel Lights](concepts/scene/light/additive-per-pixel-lights.md)
        - [Shadows](concepts/scene/light/shadow.md)
        - [Lightmapping](concepts/scene/light/lightmap.md)
    - [Meshes](module-map/mesh/index.md)
        - [MeshRenderer](engine/renderable/model-component.md)
    - [Textures](module-map/texture/index.md)
        - [Texture Compression](asset/compress-texture.md)
        - [RenderTexture](asset/render-texture.md)
    - [Material System](material-system/overview.md)
        - [YAML 101](material-system/yaml-101.md)
        - [Effect Syntax](material-system/effect-syntax.md)
        - [Pass Params](material-system/pass-parameter-list.md)
        - [Builtin Shader Uniforms](material-system/builtin-shader-uniforms.md)
    - [Effects](module-map/effects/index.md)
        - [Billboard](particle-system/billboard-component.md)
        - [Line](particle-system/line-component.md)
    - [Skybox](concepts/scene/skybox.md)
    - [Global Fog](concepts/scene/fog.md)

- [2D Objects](2d-object/index.md)
    - [2D Render](2d-object/2d-render/index.md)
        - [Rendering Order](ui-system/components/engine/priority.md)
        - [2D Rendering Component Batching Rules](ui-system/components/engine/ui-batch.md)
        - [Custom Materials for 2D Rendering Objects](ui-system/components/engine/ui-material.md)
        - [2D Rendering Components](ui-system/components/editor/render-component.md)
            - [Sprite Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/sprite.md)
            - [Label Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/label.md)
            - [Mask Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/mask.md)
            - [Graphics Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/graphics.md)
            - [RichText Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/richtext.md)
            - [UIStaticBatch Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/ui-static.md)
            - [Spine Skeleton Component Reference](editor/components/spine.md)
            - [DragonBones ArmatureDisplay Component Reference](editor/components/dragonbones.md)
            - [TiledMap Component Reference](editor/components/tiledmap.md)
            - [TiledTile Component Reference](editor/components/tiledtile.md)
            - [MotionStreak Component Reference](editor/components/motion-streak.md)
    - [UI System](2d-object/ui-system/index.md)
        - [UI Components](ui-system/components/editor/base-component.md)
            - [Canvas Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/canvas.md)
            - [UITransform Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/ui-transform.md)
            - [Widget Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/widget.md)
            - [Button Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/button.md)
            - [Layout Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/layout.md)
            - [EditBox Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/editbox.md)
            - [ScrollView Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/scrollview.md)
            - [ScrollBar Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/scrollbar.md)
            - [ProgressBar Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/progress.md)
            - [LabelOutline Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/label-outline.md)
            - [LabelShadow Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/label-shadow.md)
            - [Toggle Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/toggle.md)
            - [ToggleContainer Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/toggleContainer.md)
            - [Slider Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/slider.md)
            - [PageView Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/pageview.md)
            - [PageViewIndicator Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/pageviewindicator.md)
            - [UIMeshRenderer Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/ui-model.md)
            - [UICoordinateTracker Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/ui-coordinate-tracker.md)
            - [UIOpacity Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/ui-opacity.md)
            - [BlockInputEvents Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/block-input-events.md)
            - [WebView Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/webview.md)
            - [VideoPlayer Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/videoplayer.md)
            - [SafeArea Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/safearea.md)
        - [UI Practice Guide](ui-system/components/engine/usage-ui.md)
            - [Multi-Resolution Adaption](ui-system/components/engine/multi-resolution.md)
            - [Widget Alignment](ui-system/components/engine/widget-align.md)
            - [Label Layout](ui-system/components/engine/label-layout.md)
            - [Auto Layout Container](ui-system/components/engine/auto-layout.md)
            - [Create a List of Dynamically Generated Content](ui-system/components/engine/list-with-data.md)
            - [Stretchable UI Sprite](ui-system/components/engine/sliced-sprite.md)

- [Animation](animation/index.md)
    - [Animation Clip](animation/animation-clip.md)
    - [Animation Component Reference](animation/animation-comp.md)
    - [Animation Panel](animation/animation.md)
        - [Creating Animation Components and Animation Clips](animation/animation-create.md)
        - [Get Familiar with the Animation Panel](animation/animation-editor.md)
        - [Editing Animation Clips](animation/edit-animation-clip.md)
        - [Editing Animation Easing Curve](animation/animation-curve.md)
        - [Adding Animation Events](animation/animation-event.md)
        - [Using Animation Curves](animation/use-animation-curve.md)
    - [Skeletal Animation](animation/skeletal-animation.md)
        - [Joint Texture Layout Settings](animation/joint-texture-layout.md)
    - [Controlling Animation with Scripts](animation/animation-component.md)
        - [Animation State](animation/animation-state.md)

- [Audio System](audio-system/overview.md)
    - [AudioSource Component Reference](audio-system/audiosource.md)

- [Physics System](physics/index.md)
    - [Physics 2D](physics-2d/physics-2d.md)
        - [2D Physics Manager](physics-2d/physics-2d-system.md)
        - [2D RigidBody](physics-2d/physics-2d-rigid-body.md)
        - [2D Physics Collider](physics-2d/physics-2d-collider.md)
        - [2D Contact Callback](physics-2d/physics-2d-contact-callback.md)
        - [2D Physics Joint](physics-2d/physics-2d-joint.md)
    - [Physics 3D](physics/physics.md)
        - [3D Physics Options](physics/physics-item.md)
        - [3D Physics System](physics/physics-system.md)
        - [3D Physics Component](physics/physics-component.md)
        - [Using 3D Physics](physics/physics-use.md)
            - [3D Physics Collider](physics/physics-collider.md)
            - [3D Physics Configs](editor/project/physics-configs.md)
            - [3D Physics Material](physics/physics-material.md)
            - [3D RigidBody](physics/physics-rigidbody.md)
            - [3D Physics Events](physics/physics-event.md)
            - [Groups And Masks](physics/physics-group-mask.md)
            - [3D RayCast Detection](physics/physics-raycast.md)

- [Particle System](particle-system/index.md)
    - [2D Particle System](particle-system/2d-particle/2d-particle.md)
    - [3D Particle System](particle-system/overview.md)
        - [Particle System Module](particle-system/module.md)
            - [Main Module](particle-system/main-module.md)
            - [Shape Module](particle-system/emitter.md)
            - [Velocity Overtime Module](particle-system/velocity-module.md)
            - [Force Overtime Module](particle-system/force-module.md)
            - [Size Overtime Module](particle-system/size-module.md)
            - [Rotation Overtime Module](particle-system/rotation-module.md)
            - [Color Over Life Time Module](particle-system/color-module.md)
            - [Texture Animation Module](particle-system/texture-animation-module.md)
            - [Limit Velocity Overtime Module](particle-system/limit-velocity-module.md)
            - [Trail Module](particle-system/trail-module.md)
            - [Renderer Module](particle-system/renderer.md)
        - [Particle Properties Editor](particle-system/editor/index.md)
            - [Curve Editor](particle-system/editor/curve-editor.md)
            - [Gradient Editor](particle-system/editor/gradient-editor.md)
            - [Particle Editor](particle-system/editor/particle-effect-panel.md)

- [Tween System](tween/index.md)

- [Terrain System](editor/terrain/index.md)

- [Asset Manager](asset/asset-manager.md)
    - [AssetManager Upgrade Guide](asset/asset-manager-upgrade-guide.md)
    - [Asset Bundle Upgrade Guide](asset/subpackage-upgrade-guide.md)
    - [Asset Loading](asset/dynamic-load-resources.md)
    - [Asset Bundle](asset/bundle.md)
    - [Release Of Assets](asset/release-manager.md)
    - [Download and Parse](asset/downloader-parser.md)
    - [Loading and Preloading](asset/preload-load.md)
    - [Cache Manager](asset/cache-manager.md)
    - [Optional Parameters](asset/options.md)
    - [Pipeline and Task](asset/pipeline-task.md)
    - [Resource Management Considerations --- meta files](asset/meta.md)

## Advanced Tutorials

- [Editor Extension](editor/extension/readme.md)
    - [First Extension](editor/extension/first.md)
    - [First Panel](editor/extension/first-panel.md)
    - [First Data Interaction](editor/extension/first-communication.md)
    - [Install and Share](editor/extension/install.md)
    - [Submitting Resources to Cocos Store](editor/extension/store/upload-store.md)
    - [Extension Panel](editor/extension/panel.md)
        - [Compose Panel](editor/extension/panel-boot.md)
        - [Panel Message](editor/extension/panel-messages.md)
        - [Communicate with the Panel](editor/extension/to-panel-messages.md)
    - [Contributions](editor/extension/contributions.md)
        - [Message](editor/extension/contributions-messages.md)
        - [Shortcuts](editor/extension/contributions-shortcuts.md)
        - [Call the engine API and project script](editor/extension/scene-script.md)
        - [Extending the Main Menu](editor/extension/contributions-menu.md)
        - [Extending the Assets Panel](editor/assets/extension.md)
        - [Extending the Project Settings Panel](editor/extension/contributions-project.md)
        - [Extending the Preferences Panel](editor/extension/contributions-preferences.md)
        - [Extend the Build Process](editor/publish/custom-build-plugin.md)
    - [Basic](editor/extension/basic.md)
        - [Extension Description](editor/extension/define.md)
        - [Extension](editor/extension/package.md)
        - [Message](editor/extension/messages.md)
        - [I18n](editor/extension/i18n.md)
        - [Profile](editor/extension/profile.md)
        - [Editor UI](editor/extension/ui.md)
- [Advanced Topics](advanced-topics/index.md)
    - [Hot Update Tutorial](advanced-topics/hot-update.md)
    - [AssetManager for Hot Update](advanced-topics/hot-update-manager.md)
    - [Dynamic Atlas](advanced-topics/dynamic-atlas.md)
    - [Engine Customization Workflow](advanced-topics/engine-customization.md)
    - [Web Preview Customization Workflow](editor/preview/browser.md)
    - [The Tutorial for JSB 2.0](advanced-topics/JSB2.0-learning.md)
    - [JavaScript to Java Reflection](advanced-topics/java-reflection.md)
    - [JavaScript to Objective-C Reflection](advanced-topics/oc-reflection.md)
    - [CMake Usage Introduction](advanced-topics/cmake-learning.md)
    - [WebSocket Server](advanced-topics/websocket-server.md)

Commit message:

发布到小游戏平台、华为、支付宝 (#1873)
* 翻译发布到小游戏平台、华为、支付宝

* 删除原生平台重复

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Slack-Moehrle <slackmoehrle@users.noreply.github.com>

* 修改通用构建选项

* 一些修改

* 一些修改

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: yufang.wu <2435731537@qq.com>

* 大小写

* Update en/editor/publish/publish-alipay-mini-game.md

Co-authored-by: Slack-Moehrle <slackmoehrle@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: yufang.wu <2435731537@qq.com>

en/SUMMARY.md, after:

# Summary

## Beginners Guide

[Introduction](index.md)

- [Basic Usage](getting-started/index.md)
    - [About Cocos Creator](getting-started/introduction/index.md)
    - [Installing and Launching](getting-started/install/index.md)
    - [Dashboard](getting-started/dashboard/index.md)
    - [Hello World!](getting-started/helloworld/index.md)
    - [Project Structure](getting-started/project-structure/index.md)
    - [Editor Panels](editor/index.md)
        - [Scene](editor/scene/index.md)
        - [Hierarchy](editor/hierarchy/index.md)
        - [Assets](editor/assets/index.md)
        - [Inspector](editor/inspector/index.md)
        - [Console](editor/console/index.md)
        - [Preferences](editor/preferences/index.md)
        - [Project Settings](editor/project/index.md)
        - [Main Menu](editor/mainMenu/index.md)
        - [Tool Bar](editor/toolbar/index.md)
        - [Editor Layout](editor/editor-layout/index.md)
        - [Preview & Debugging](editor/preview/index.md)
    - [Support](getting-started/support.md)
    - [Caution!](getting-started/attention/index.md)
- [Quick Start: First Game](getting-started/first-game/index.md)
- [Upgrade Guide](release-notes/index.md)
    - [Cocos Creator 3.0 Upgrade Guide](release-notes/upgrade-guide-v3.0.md)
    - [Cocos Creator 3.0 Material Upgrade Guide](material-system/effect-2.x-to-3.0.md)

## Basic Workflow

- [Scene Creation](concepts/scene/index.md)
    - [Scene Assets](asset/scene.md)
    - [Nodes and Components](concepts/scene/node-component.md)
    - [Coordinate Systems and Transformations](concepts/scene/coord.md)
    - [Node Hierarchy and Rendering Order](concepts/scene/node-tree.md)
    - [Build a Scene Image Using the Scene Panel](concepts/scene/scene-editing.md)

- [Asset System](asset/index.md)
    - [Asset Workflow](asset/asset-workflow.md)
    - [Images](asset/image.md)
        - [Textures](asset/texture.md)
        - [Sprite Frames](asset/sprite-frame.md)
            - [Auto Trim for SpriteFrame](ui-system/components/engine/trim.md)
        - [Atlas](asset/atlas.md)
        - [Auto Atlas](asset/auto-atlas.md)
        - [Label Atlas](asset/label-atlas.md)
    - [Prefab](asset/prefab.md)
    - [Fonts](asset/font.md)
    - [Audio](asset/audio.md)
    - [Material](asset/material.md)
    - [Model](asset/model/mesh.md)
        - [Importing Models Exported from DCC Tools](asset/model/dcc-export-mesh.md)
        - [glTF](asset/model/glTF.md)
    - [Spine Skeletal Animation](asset/spine.md)
    - [DragonBones Skeletal Animation](asset/dragonbones.md)
    - [TiledMap](asset/tiledmap.md)

- [Scripting Guide and Event System](scripting/index.md)
    - [Programming Language Support](scripting/language-support.md)
    - [Scripting Basics](scripting/script-basics.md)
        - [Script Creation](scripting/setup.md)
        - [Operating Environment](scripting/basic.md)
        - [Decorator](scripting/decorator.md)
        - [Property Attributes](scripting/reference/attributes.md)
        - [Life Cycle Callbacks](scripting/life-cycle-callbacks.md)
    - [Using Scripts](scripting/usage.md)
        - [Access Nodes and Components](scripting/access-node-component.md)
        - [Common Node and Component Interfaces](scripting/basic-node-api.md)
        - [Create and Destroy Nodes](scripting/create-destroy.md)
        - [Scheduler](scripting/scheduler.md)
        - [Components and Component Execution Order](scripting/component.md)
        - [Loading and Switching Scenes](scripting/scene-managing.md)
        - [Obtaining and Loading Assets](scripting/load-assets.md)
        - [tsconfig Configuration](scripting/tsconfig.md)
    - [Advanced Scripting](scripting/reference-class.md)
    - [Events](engine/event/index.md)
        - [Listening to and Launching Events](engine/event/event-emit.md)
        - [Node System Events](engine/event/event-builtin.md)
        - [Global System Events](engine/event/event-input.md)
        - [Event API](engine/event/event-api.md)
    - [Modules](scripting/modules/index.md)
        - [Engine Modules](scripting/modules/engine.md)
        - [External Module Usage Case](scripting/modules/example.md)
        - [Module Specification](scripting/modules/spec.md)
    - [Plugin Scripts](scripting/external-scripts.md)

- [Cross-platform Game Publish](editor/publish/index.md)
    - [About the Build Panel](editor/publish/build-panel.md)
    - [General Build Options](editor/publish/build-options.md)
    - [Publish to Web Platforms](editor/publish/publish-web.md)
    - [Publish to Native Platforms](editor/publish/native-options.md)
        - [Setup Native Development](editor/publish/setup-native-development.md)
        - [Debugging JavaScript on Native Platforms](editor/publish/debug-jsb.md)
    - [Publish to Mini Game Platforms](editor/publish/publish-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to HUAWEI AppGallery Connect](editor/publish/publish-huawei-agc.md)
        - [Publish to Alipay Mini Game](editor/publish/publish-alipay-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to ByteDance Mini Game](editor/publish/publish-bytedance-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to Cocos Play](editor/publish/publish-cocos-play.md)
        - [Publish to Huawei Quick Game](editor/publish/publish-huawei-quick-game.md)
        - [Publish to OPPO Mini Game](editor/publish/publish-oppo-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to vivo Mini Game](editor/publish/publish-vivo-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to Xiaomi Quick Game](editor/publish/publish-xiaomi-quick-game.md)
        - [Publish to Baidu Mini Game](editor/publish/publish-baidu-mini-game.md)
        - [Publish to WeChat Mini Game](editor/publish/publish-wechatgame.md)
            - [WeChat Engine Plugin](editor/publish/wechatgame-plugin.md)
            - [Access to the WeChat PC Mini Game](editor/publish/publish-pc-wechatgame.md)
        - [Access to Open Data Context](editor/publish/build-open-data-context.md)
        - [Mini Game Subpackage](editor/publish/subpackage.md)
    - [Publish from the Command Line](editor/publish/publish-in-command-line.md)
    - [Build Process with FAQ](editor/publish/build-guide.md)
    - [Custom Project Build Process](editor/publish/custom-project-build-template.md)

## Function Modules

- [Graphics Rendering](module-map/graphics.md)
    - [Render Pipeline](render-pipeline/overview.md)
        - [Built-in Render Pipeline](render-pipeline/builtin-pipeline.md)
    - [Camera](editor/components/camera-component.md)
    - [Lighting](concepts/scene/light.md)
        - [Physically Based Lighting](concepts/scene/light/pbr-lighting.md)
        - [Lights](concepts/scene/light/lightType/index.md)
            - [Directional Lights](concepts/scene/light/lightType/dir-light.md)
            - [Spherical Lights](concepts/scene/light/lightType/sphere-light.md)
            - [Spotlights](concepts/scene/light/lightType/spot-light.md)
            - [Ambient Light](concepts/scene/light/lightType/ambient.md)
        - [Additive Per-Pixel Lights](concepts/scene/light/additive-per-pixel-lights.md)
        - [Shadows](concepts/scene/light/shadow.md)
        - [Lightmapping](concepts/scene/light/lightmap.md)
    - [Meshes](module-map/mesh/index.md)
        - [MeshRenderer](engine/renderable/model-component.md)
    - [Textures](module-map/texture/index.md)
        - [Texture Compression](asset/compress-texture.md)
        - [RenderTexture](asset/render-texture.md)
    - [Material System](material-system/overview.md)
        - [YAML 101](material-system/yaml-101.md)
        - [Effect Syntax](material-system/effect-syntax.md)
        - [Pass Params](material-system/pass-parameter-list.md)
        - [Builtin Shader Uniforms](material-system/builtin-shader-uniforms.md)
    - [Effects](module-map/effects/index.md)
        - [Billboard](particle-system/billboard-component.md)
        - [Line](particle-system/line-component.md)
    - [Skybox](concepts/scene/skybox.md)
    - [Global Fog](concepts/scene/fog.md)

- [2D Objects](2d-object/index.md)
    - [2D Render](2d-object/2d-render/index.md)
        - [Rendering Order](ui-system/components/engine/priority.md)
        - [2D Rendering Component Batching Rules](ui-system/components/engine/ui-batch.md)
        - [Custom Materials for 2D Rendering Objects](ui-system/components/engine/ui-material.md)
        - [2D Rendering Components](ui-system/components/editor/render-component.md)
            - [Sprite Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/sprite.md)
            - [Label Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/label.md)
            - [Mask Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/mask.md)
            - [Graphics Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/graphics.md)
            - [RichText Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/richtext.md)
            - [UIStaticBatch Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/ui-static.md)
            - [Spine Skeleton Component Reference](editor/components/spine.md)
            - [DragonBones ArmatureDisplay Component Reference](editor/components/dragonbones.md)
            - [TiledMap Component Reference](editor/components/tiledmap.md)
            - [TiledTile Component Reference](editor/components/tiledtile.md)
            - [MotionStreak Component Reference](editor/components/motion-streak.md)
    - [UI System](2d-object/ui-system/index.md)
        - [UI Components](ui-system/components/editor/base-component.md)
            - [Canvas Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/canvas.md)
            - [UITransform Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/ui-transform.md)
            - [Widget Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/widget.md)
            - [Button Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/button.md)
            - [Layout Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/layout.md)
            - [EditBox Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/editbox.md)
            - [ScrollView Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/scrollview.md)
            - [ScrollBar Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/scrollbar.md)
            - [ProgressBar Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/progress.md)
            - [LabelOutline Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/label-outline.md)
            - [LabelShadow Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/label-shadow.md)
            - [Toggle Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/toggle.md)
            - [ToggleContainer Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/toggleContainer.md)
            - [Slider Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/slider.md)
            - [PageView Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/pageview.md)
            - [PageViewIndicator Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/pageviewindicator.md)
            - [UIMeshRenderer Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/ui-model.md)
            - [UICoordinateTracker Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/ui-coordinate-tracker.md)
            - [UIOpacity Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/ui-opacity.md)
            - [BlockInputEvents Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/block-input-events.md)
            - [WebView Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/webview.md)
            - [VideoPlayer Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/videoplayer.md)
            - [SafeArea Component Reference](ui-system/components/editor/safearea.md)
        - [UI Practice Guide](ui-system/components/engine/usage-ui.md)
            - [Multi-Resolution Adaption](ui-system/components/engine/multi-resolution.md)
            - [Widget Alignment](ui-system/components/engine/widget-align.md)
            - [Label Layout](ui-system/components/engine/label-layout.md)
            - [Auto Layout Container](ui-system/components/engine/auto-layout.md)
            - [Create a List of Dynamically Generated Content](ui-system/components/engine/list-with-data.md)
            - [Stretchable UI Sprite](ui-system/components/engine/sliced-sprite.md)

- [Animation](animation/index.md)
    - [Animation Clip](animation/animation-clip.md)
    - [Animation Component Reference](animation/animation-comp.md)
    - [Animation Panel](animation/animation.md)
        - [Creating Animation Components and Animation Clips](animation/animation-create.md)
        - [Get Familiar with the Animation Panel](animation/animation-editor.md)
        - [Editing Animation Clips](animation/edit-animation-clip.md)
        - [Editing Animation Easing Curve](animation/animation-curve.md)
        - [Adding Animation Events](animation/animation-event.md)
        - [Using Animation Curves](animation/use-animation-curve.md)
    - [Skeletal Animation](animation/skeletal-animation.md)
        - [Joint Texture Layout Settings](animation/joint-texture-layout.md)
    - [Controlling Animation with Scripts](animation/animation-component.md)
        - [Animation State](animation/animation-state.md)

- [Audio System](audio-system/overview.md)
    - [AudioSource Component Reference](audio-system/audiosource.md)

- [Physics System](physics/index.md)
    - [Physics 2D](physics-2d/physics-2d.md)
        - [2D Physics Manager](physics-2d/physics-2d-system.md)
        - [2D RigidBody](physics-2d/physics-2d-rigid-body.md)
        - [2D Physics Collider](physics-2d/physics-2d-collider.md)
        - [2D Contact Callback](physics-2d/physics-2d-contact-callback.md)
        - [2D Physics Joint](physics-2d/physics-2d-joint.md)
    - [Physics 3D](physics/physics.md)
        - [3D Physics Options](physics/physics-item.md)
        - [3D Physics System](physics/physics-system.md)
        - [3D Physics Component](physics/physics-component.md)
        - [Using 3D Physics](physics/physics-use.md)
            - [3D Physics Collider](physics/physics-collider.md)
            - [3D Physics Configs](editor/project/physics-configs.md)
            - [3D Physics Material](physics/physics-material.md)
            - [3D RigidBody](physics/physics-rigidbody.md)
            - [3D Physics Events](physics/physics-event.md)
            - [Groups And Masks](physics/physics-group-mask.md)
            - [3D RayCast Detection](physics/physics-raycast.md)

- [Particle System](particle-system/index.md)
    - [2D Particle System](particle-system/2d-particle/2d-particle.md)
    - [3D Particle System](particle-system/overview.md)
        - [Particle System Module](particle-system/module.md)
            - [Main Module](particle-system/main-module.md)
            - [Shape Module](particle-system/emitter.md)
            - [Velocity Overtime Module](particle-system/velocity-module.md)
            - [Force Overtime Module](particle-system/force-module.md)
            - [Size Overtime Module](particle-system/size-module.md)
            - [Rotation Overtime Module](particle-system/rotation-module.md)
            - [Color Over Life Time Module](particle-system/color-module.md)
            - [Texture Animation Module](particle-system/texture-animation-module.md)
            - [Limit Velocity Overtime Module](particle-system/limit-velocity-module.md)
            - [Trail Module](particle-system/trail-module.md)
            - [Renderer Module](particle-system/renderer.md)
        - [Particle Properties Editor](particle-system/editor/index.md)
            - [Curve Editor](particle-system/editor/curve-editor.md)
            - [Gradient Editor](particle-system/editor/gradient-editor.md)
            - [Particle Editor](particle-system/editor/particle-effect-panel.md)

- [Tween System](tween/index.md)

- [Terrain System](editor/terrain/index.md)

- [Asset Manager](asset/asset-manager.md)
    - [AssetManager Upgrade Guide](asset/asset-manager-upgrade-guide.md)
    - [Asset Bundle Upgrade Guide](asset/subpackage-upgrade-guide.md)
    - [Asset Loading](asset/dynamic-load-resources.md)
    - [Asset Bundle](asset/bundle.md)
    - [Release Of Assets](asset/release-manager.md)
    - [Download and Parse](asset/downloader-parser.md)
    - [Loading and Preloading](asset/preload-load.md)
    - [Cache Manager](asset/cache-manager.md)
    - [Optional Parameters](asset/options.md)
    - [Pipeline and Task](asset/pipeline-task.md)
    - [Resource Management Considerations --- meta files](asset/meta.md)

## Advanced Tutorials

- [Editor Extension](editor/extension/readme.md)
    - [First Extension](editor/extension/first.md)
    - [First Panel](editor/extension/first-panel.md)
    - [First Data Interaction](editor/extension/first-communication.md)
    - [Install and Share](editor/extension/install.md)
    - [Submitting Resources to Cocos Store](editor/extension/store/upload-store.md)
    - [Extension Panel](editor/extension/panel.md)
        - [Compose Panel](editor/extension/panel-boot.md)
        - [Panel Message](editor/extension/panel-messages.md)
        - [Communicate with the Panel](editor/extension/to-panel-messages.md)
    - [Contributions](editor/extension/contributions.md)
        - [Message](editor/extension/contributions-messages.md)
        - [Shortcuts](editor/extension/contributions-shortcuts.md)
        - [Call the engine API and project script](editor/extension/scene-script.md)
        - [Extending the Main Menu](editor/extension/contributions-menu.md)
        - [Extending the Assets Panel](editor/assets/extension.md)
        - [Extending the Project Settings Panel](editor/extension/contributions-project.md)
        - [Extending the Preferences Panel](editor/extension/contributions-preferences.md)
        - [Extend the Build Process](editor/publish/custom-build-plugin.md)
    - [Basic](editor/extension/basic.md)
        - [Extension Description](editor/extension/define.md)
        - [Extension](editor/extension/package.md)
        - [Message](editor/extension/messages.md)
        - [I18n](editor/extension/i18n.md)
        - [Profile](editor/extension/profile.md)
        - [Editor UI](editor/extension/ui.md)
- [Advanced Topics](advanced-topics/index.md)
    - [Hot Update Tutorial](advanced-topics/hot-update.md)
    - [AssetManager for Hot Update](advanced-topics/hot-update-manager.md)
    - [Dynamic Atlas](advanced-topics/dynamic-atlas.md)
    - [Engine Customization Workflow](advanced-topics/engine-customization.md)
    - [Web Preview Customization Workflow](editor/preview/browser.md)
    - [The Tutorial for JSB 2.0](advanced-topics/JSB2.0-learning.md)
    - [JavaScript to Java Reflection](advanced-topics/java-reflection.md)
    - [JavaScript to Objective-C Reflection](advanced-topics/oc-reflection.md)
    - [CMake Usage Introduction](advanced-topics/cmake-learning.md)
    - [WebSocket Server](advanced-topics/websocket-server.md)
