en/concepts/scene/light/lightType/ambient.md, before:

# Ambient Lights

In life, intricate lights and uneven surfaces of objects reflect each other, making the whole environment illuminated, as if by a layer of light evenly enveloped, this light is generally called Ambient Light. By adjusting the ambient light, is the most direct way to adjust the overall illumination of the environment, but also an effective way to express the atmosphere of the environment.

![ambient](ambient/ambient.png)

Select **Scene** in the **Hierarchy** panel and set the properties in the **ambient** component of the **Inspector** panel.

> **Note**: since the ambient light is directionless, it cannot produce shadows.

## Ambient lights properties

![ambient panel](ambient/ambient-prop.png)

| Property | Explanation |
| :--- | :--- |
| **SkyColor** | Set the sky color |
| **SkyIllumination** | Adjust the sky brightness |
| **GroundAlbedo** | Set the ground reflected light |

Ambient light can be used with a Skybox, see the [Skybox](skybox.md) documentation for details.

Commit message:

翻译光源 (#1821)
* 翻译光源

* 第一次修改

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Slack-Moehrle <slackmoehrle@users.noreply.github.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: yufang.wu <2435731537@qq.com>

* 单复数用法修改

* Update en/concepts/scene/light/lightType/ambient.md

Co-authored-by: Slack-Moehrle <slackmoehrle@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: yufang.wu <2435731537@qq.com>

en/concepts/scene/light/lightType/ambient.md, after:

# Ambient Light

In life, intricate light and uneven object surfaces reflect off each other, making the entire environment illuminated as if by an even layer of light, this light is generally called ambient light, also known as diffuse ambient light.

Because the ambient light can evenly illuminate all objects in the scene, it is often used to solve the problem of the backlight surface of the model is completely black, generally need to be used with other types of lights together. For example, if there is only directional light in the scene, it will look very dark at the backlight of the model.

![ambient](ambient/ambient.png)

Check **Scene** in the **Hierarchy** panel, and then set the ambient light property in the **ambient** component of the **Inspector** panel.

> **Note**: since ambient light is undirected, it cannot produce shadows.

## Ambient Light Properties

![ambient panel](ambient/ambient-prop.png)

| Property | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| SkyColor | Sets the sky color. |
| SkyIllumination | Adjusts the sky brightness. |
| GroundAlbedo | Sets the color of the reflected light from the ground. |

The ambient light can be used together with the sky box, for details, please refer to the [Skybox](../../skybox.md) documentation.
