en/particle-system/module.md, before:

# Introduction to 3D Particle System

ParticleSystem stores the initial state of particle emission. After particle emission, it updates the submodule through the state.

## Particle System Module

[ParticleSystem](main-module.md)

[ShapeModule](emitter.md)

[ColorOvertimeModule](color-module.md)

[SizeOvertimeModule](size-module.md)

[RotationOvertimeModule](rotation-module.md)

[VelocityOvertimeModule](velocity-module.md)

[LimitVelocityOvertimeModule](limit-velocity-module.md)

[ForceOvertimeModule](force-module.md)

[TextureAnimationModule](texture-animation-module.md)

[Renderer](renderer.md)

[TrailModule](trail-module.md)

## Resource Culling

The modules of each particle system exist as independent objects, and each module stores some module-related data, so for the modules that are not checked for use, the recorded data is useless data. When developers do not need to dynamically open these unedited modules at runtime, they can check the **DataCulling** option at the bottom of the **Inspector** panel of ParticleSystem to remove these useless data to reduce resource consumption.

Commit message:

翻译v3.4粒子系统相关 (#1913)
* 翻译v3.4粒子系统相关

* resource -> asset

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Slack-Moehrle <slackmoehrle@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Slack-Moehrle <slackmoehrle@users.noreply.github.com>

en/particle-system/module.md, after:

# Particle System Function Introduction

Particle System stores the initial state of particle emission and the state update submodule after particle emission.

## Particle System Module

The Cocos Creator particle system operation panel is as follows:

![inspector_1](module/inspector_1.png)<br>
![inspector_2](module/inspector_2.png)

The particle system uses modules to organize functionality, including the following modules:

| Module | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| Node | Particle node, used to set the position, direction, size, rendering level and other properties of the particle emitter. |
| [ParticleSystem](main-module.md) (main module) | Used to store all the data displayed in the **Inspector** panel, manage particle generation, update, destroy related modules, and control particle playback |
| [ShapeModule](emitter.md) (emitter module) | Used to control particle emitting, including emitting direction and speed, support predefined emitting direction, including square, circle, cone, ball, hemisphere. |
| AnimatorModule | Used to control the state update after the particle is launched. Supported features include:<br>[VelocityOvertimeModule](velocity-module.md)<br>[ForceOvertimeModule](force-module.md)<br>[SizeOvertimeModule](size-module.md)<br>[RotationOvertimeModule](rotation-module.md)<br>[ColorOvertimeModule](color-module.md)<br>[TextureAnimationModule](texture-animation-module.md)<br>[LimitVelocityOvertimeModule](limit-velocity-module.md)<br>[TrailModule](trail-module.md) | [Renderer]<br
| [Renderer](renderer.md) | The data needed to generate particle rendering. Including VB, IB, render state related control. |
