en/asset/texture.md, before:

# Texture Assets

__Texture__ assets are assets used for procedural sampling, such as __textures on models__ and the __UI on Sprites__. When the UI or model are rendered, the corresponding texture is sampled, then filled on the model grid, plus a series of processing such as lighting to render the entire scene.

__Texture assets__ can be generated from __ImageAsset__. Some common image formats, including `.png`, `.jpeg`, etc. can be used in __ImageAsset__.

## Texture2D

__Texture2D__ is a type of __texture asset__ that is usually used for rendering of __3D models__, such as __reflection map__, __ambient occlusion map__, etc... in model materials.

__Texture2D__ in __Cocos Creator__:

![Texture2D](texture/Texture2D.jpg)

> __Note__: the texture type is a __Texture2D__ asset.

### Adjusting the Properties of a Texture2D

When importing an __ImageAsset__, it will be set to __Texture2D__ by default. At this same time, one or more sub-assets will be generated on the original asset. Click the arrow in front of the original asset to see all the sub-assets. Example:

![View Sub-assets](texture/SubAssets.gif)

After selecting the generated __Texture2D__ sub-asset, you can see the following panel:

![Texture2D sub-asset](texture/Texture2DPanel.jpg)

#### Sub-Asset Texture2D Properties Panel

![Texture2D Property Panel](texture/Texture2DDetail.jpg)

The following describes the properties of the panel:

| Property | Explanation |
| :--- | :--- |
| __Anisotropy__ | Anisotropy value |
| __Min Filter__ | Narrowing Filter Algorithm |
| __Mag Filter__ | Magnification Filter Algorithm |
| __Mip Filter__ | Multi-level texture filtering algorithm |
| __Wrap Mode S__ | S (U) direction texture addressing mode |
| __Wrap Mode T__ | T (V) direction texture addressing mode |

> __Note__: since the default **Wrap Mode** may result in black edges when rendering transparent edges of an image, Creator will change the __Wrap Mode S__ and __Wrap Mode T__ properties of the texture resource to __clamp-to-edge__ automatically when setting the image resource type to __sprite-frame__, which can be modified by the developer if there is a special need.

### Using Texture2D

__Texture2D__ is a very widely used asset. Any property marked as __Texture2D__ in the __Inspector__ panel can be dragged into a __Texture2D__ asset type.

The usage scenario is mainly in the __Editor__ environment and for __dynamic acquisition__:

- In the __Editor__, just drag the assets in;
- For __dynamic acquisition__, you need to obtain the __ImageAsset__ asset first, and then instantiate the __Texture2D__ asset based on the obtained __ImageAsset__.

## TextureCube

__TextureCube__ is a cube texture, which can be used to set the scene's [Skybox](../concepts/scene/skybox.md). It can be obtained by setting the __panorama__ __ImageAsset__ to the __TextureCube__ type. It can also be obtained by making __CubeMap__ assets.

__TextureCube__ obtained from a __panorama__ in __Cocos Creator__:

![Panorama](texture/Panorama.jpg)

__TextureCube__ obtained by making a __CubeMap__ in __Cocos Creator__:

![CubeMap](../concepts/scene/skybox/Cubemap_Inspector.png)

To learn more about the use of __TextureCube__ and __CubeMaps__, please refer to the [Skybox](../concepts/scene/skybox.md) documentation.

Commit message:

Add doc for `setMipRange`. (#2032)
* Add backend limit for setMipRange

* Apply suggestions from code review

en/asset/texture.md, after:

# Texture Assets

__Texture__ assets are assets used for procedural sampling, such as __textures on models__ and the __UI on Sprites__. When the UI or model are rendered, the corresponding texture is sampled, then filled on the model grid, plus a series of processing such as lighting to render the entire scene.

__Texture assets__ can be generated from __ImageAsset__. Some common image formats, including `.png`, `.jpeg`, etc. can be used in __ImageAsset__.

## Texture2D

__Texture2D__ is a type of __texture asset__ that is usually used for rendering of __3D models__, such as __reflection map__, __ambient occlusion map__, etc... in model materials.

__Texture2D__ in __Cocos Creator__:

![Texture2D](texture/Texture2D.jpg)

> __Note__: the texture type is a __Texture2D__ asset.

### Adjusting the Properties of a Texture2D

When importing an __ImageAsset__, it will be set to __Texture2D__ by default. At this same time, one or more sub-assets will be generated on the original asset. Click the arrow in front of the original asset to see all the sub-assets. Example:

![View Sub-assets](texture/SubAssets.gif)

After selecting the generated __Texture2D__ sub-asset, you can see the following panel:

![Texture2D sub-asset](texture/Texture2DPanel.jpg)

#### Sub-Asset Texture2D Properties Panel

![Texture2D Property Panel](texture/Texture2DDetail.jpg)

The following describes the properties of the panel:

| Property        | Explanation                             |
| :-------------- | :-------------------------------------- |
| __Anisotropy__  | Anisotropy value                        |
| __Min Filter__  | Narrowing Filter Algorithm              |
| __Mag Filter__  | Magnification Filter Algorithm          |
| __Mip Filter__  | Multi-level texture filtering algorithm |
| __Wrap Mode S__ | S (U) direction texture addressing mode |
| __Wrap Mode T__ | T (V) direction texture addressing mode |

> __Note__: since the default **Wrap Mode** may result in black edges when rendering transparent edges of an image, Creator will change the __Wrap Mode S__ and __Wrap Mode T__ properties of the texture resource to __clamp-to-edge__ automatically when setting the image resource type to __sprite-frame__, which can be modified by the developer if there is a special need.

### Using Texture2D

__Texture2D__ is a very widely used asset. Any property marked as __Texture2D__ in the __Inspector__ panel can be dragged into a __Texture2D__ asset type.

The usage scenario is mainly in the __Editor__ environment and for __dynamic acquisition__:

- In the __Editor__, just drag the assets in;
- For __dynamic acquisition__, you need to obtain the __ImageAsset__ asset first, and then instantiate the __Texture2D__ asset based on the obtained __ImageAsset__.

## TextureCube

__TextureCube__ is a cube texture, which can be used to set the scene's [Skybox](../concepts/scene/skybox.md). It can be obtained by setting the __panorama__ __ImageAsset__ to the __TextureCube__ type. It can also be obtained by making __CubeMap__ assets.

__TextureCube__ obtained from a __panorama__ in __Cocos Creator__:

![Panorama](texture/Panorama.jpg)

__TextureCube__ obtained by making a __CubeMap__ in __Cocos Creator__:

![CubeMap](../concepts/scene/skybox/Cubemap_Inspector.png)

To learn more about the use of __TextureCube__ and __CubeMaps__, please refer to the [Skybox](../concepts/scene/skybox.md) documentation.
## Set MipMap range during runtime

The mipmap range of __Texture2D__ and __TextureCube__ can be set during runtime. After setting the limits, the program will only use the mipmaps in the given range. We can avoid the use of low-level mipmaps to save bandwidth, and avoid the use of high-level mipmaps to ensure render quality.

The method is as follow:

```Javascript
texture2d.setMipRange(minLod, maxLod);
// or
textureCube.setMipRange(minLod, maxLod);
```

where ‘minLod' specifies the minimum limit, and ‘maxLod' specifies the maximum limit. 
> **Note**:
> 1. The limit exceeding the origin `mipmapLevel` is invalid.
> 2. This method doesn't work on WebGL 1 and GLES2.
