en/advanced-topics/memory-leak-detector.md, before:

# Native engine memory leak detection system

The native engine is developed using the C++ language, and memory leaks are inevitable. In order to facilitate game & engine developers to quickly find memory leaks, Cocos Creator v3.4.0 provides a **memory leak detection system**

Compared with other memory leak detection tools, the built-in memory leak detection tool in Cocos Creator has the following advantages:

- **Cross-platform**: Support Windows/Android/Mac/iOS platforms.
- **Ease of use**: No need to download additional tools and perform complex configurations. Support output of stack information at memory leaks, which is convenient for quickly locating leaks.
- **Consistency**: The usage process of each platform is almost the same: start the game from the IDE -> run for a period of time -> close the game -> view the IDE output log.
- **Real-time**: Although the frame rate of the game in the profiling mode has dropped, it still maintains the real-time running frame rate.
- **Accuracy**: Theoretically zero false positives.

## Usage steps

1.  The memory leak detection system is disabled by default. To enable it, you need to modify the value of the macro `USE_MEMORY_LEAK_DETECTOR` in the `engine-native/cocos/base/Config.h` file of the engine directory to `1`.
    ```c++
    #ifndef USE_MEMORY_LEAK_DETECTOR
        #define USE_MEMORY_LEAK_DETECTOR 1
    #endif
    ```

2. Due to the different implementation mechanisms, two additional things need to be done on the Android platform:

    - Add a line of code `set(CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS "${CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS} -finstrument-functions")` to the `native/engine/android/CMakeLists.txt` file in the project directory, as follows:
        ```
        set(PROJ_SOURCES
            ${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/../common/Classes/Game.h
            ${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/../common/Classes/Game.cpp
            ${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/jni/main.cpp
        )
        set(CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS "${CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS} -finstrument-functions")
        ```

    - If the Job System is TBB when building the android project, please change to None or TaskFlow (default), because TBB will conflict with the current memory capture implementation mechanism on the Android platform:

        ![tbb](./memory-leak-detector/build.png)

3. Start the game from the IDE corresponding to the native platform (such as Visual Studio, Android Studio, Xcode), and close the game after running for a period of time. If there is any memory leak, the detailed information of the memory leak will be output in the output window of the IDE at this time.

    - Windows platform

      ![visual studio](./memory-leak-detector/visualstudio.png)

      In the Release version, if more friendly stack information is needed, right-click the executable project-properties, open the project properties page, and make the following settings:

        - Linker -> Debugging -> Generate Debug Info: Generate Debug Information(/DEBUG)
        - C/C++ -> Optimization -> Optimization: Disabled(/Od)
        - C/C++ -> Optimization -> Inline Function Expansion：Disabled(/Ob0)
        
    - Android platform

      ![android studio](./memory-leak-detector/androidstudio.png)

    - Mac/iOS platform
    
      ![xcode](./memory-leak-detector/xcode.png)

4. Fix the leak according to the information output by the Native platform IDE, and repeat until there is no leak.

Commit message:

remove tbb constraint (#1746)
* remove tbb constraint

* delete build png

* Update en/advanced-topics/memory-leak-detector.md

Co-authored-by: Slack-Moehrle <slackmoehrle@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update en/advanced-topics/memory-leak-detector.md

Co-authored-by: lijilin <jilin.li@cocos.com>
Co-authored-by: Slack-Moehrle <slackmoehrle@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: yufang.wu <2435731537@qq.com>

en/advanced-topics/memory-leak-detector.md, after:

# Native engine memory leak detection system

The native engine is developed using the C++ language, and memory leaks are inevitable. In order to facilitate game & engine developers to quickly find memory leaks, Cocos Creator v3.4.0 provides a **memory leak detection system**

Compared with other memory leak detection tools, the built-in memory leak detection tool in Cocos Creator has the following advantages:

- **Cross-platform**: Support Windows/Android/Mac/iOS platforms.
- **Ease of use**: No need to download additional tools and perform complex configurations. Support output of stack information at memory leaks, which is convenient for quickly locating leaks.
- **Consistency**: The usage process of each platform is almost the same: start the game from the IDE -> run for a period of time -> close the game -> view the IDE output log.
- **Real-time**: Although the frame rate of the game in the profiling mode has dropped, it still maintains the real-time running frame rate.
- **Accuracy**: Theoretically zero false positives.

## Usage steps

1.  The memory leak detection system is disabled by default. To enable it, you need to modify the value of the macro `USE_MEMORY_LEAK_DETECTOR` in the `engine-native/cocos/base/Config.h` file of the engine directory to `1`.
    ```c++
    #ifndef USE_MEMORY_LEAK_DETECTOR
        #define USE_MEMORY_LEAK_DETECTOR 1
    #endif
    ```

2. The Android platform requires one additional step as a result of the different implementation mechanisms amongst platforms:

    - Add a line of code `set(CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS "${CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS} -finstrument-functions")` to the `native/engine/android/CMakeLists.txt` file in the project directory, as follows:
        ```
        set(PROJ_SOURCES
            ${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/../common/Classes/Game.h
            ${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/../common/Classes/Game.cpp
            ${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/jni/main.cpp
        )
        set(CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS "${CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS} -finstrument-functions")
        ```

3. Start the game from the IDE corresponding to the native platform (such as Visual Studio, Android Studio, Xcode), and close the game after running for a period of time. If there is any memory leak, the detailed information of the memory leak will be output in the output window of the IDE at this time.

    - Windows platform

      ![visual studio](./memory-leak-detector/visualstudio.png)

      In the Release version, if more friendly stack information is needed, right-click the executable project-properties, open the project properties page, and make the following settings:

        - Linker -> Debugging -> Generate Debug Info: Generate Debug Information(/DEBUG)
        - C/C++ -> Optimization -> Optimization: Disabled(/Od)
        - C/C++ -> Optimization -> Inline Function Expansion：Disabled(/Ob0)
        
    - Android platform

      ![android studio](./memory-leak-detector/androidstudio.png)

    - Mac/iOS platform
    
      ![xcode](./memory-leak-detector/xcode.png)

4. Fix the leak according to the information output by the Native platform IDE, and repeat until there is no leak.
