en/getting-started/support.md, before:

# Get Help and Support

## More tutorials

More engine dynamics, quality tutorials, and interviews can be viewed at [![twitter](support/twitter.png)](https://twitter.com/cocos2dx), [![facebook](support/facebook.png)](https://www.facebook.com/cocos2dx/) or [![youtube](support/youtube.png)](https://www.youtube.com/c/CocosEngine/videos).

## Demo and example projects

**Note**: all demo and example projects on GitHub will be updated with the version of Cocos Creator. The default branch corresponds to the latest Cocos Creator version. The old version of the project will be distinguished by the branch name like **v0.7**. The branch name will match the Cocos Creator version, please be careful to distinguish the version when downloading and using.

- [Example collection](https://github.com/cocos/cocos-example-projects): From the use of basic components to the display of rendering effects, this project includes multiple scenarios with different functions and multiple game demo projects for user reference.
- [One Step, Two Steps](https://github.com/cocos-creator/tutorial-mind-your-step-3d): This is the [Quick Start](../getting-started/first-game/index.md) document Step-by-step explanation of the game.
- [Examples of Physics](https://github.com/cocos/cocos-example-projects/tree/v3.6/physics-3d): Includes some Physics test cases and examples, such as **Engulfing Black Hole**, **Simple Car**, **Falling ball**, etc. The test cases introduce some basic functions and usage methods, so that you can understand the physical functions in combination with the documentation.
- [Simple Games](https://github.com/cocos/cocos-example-projects/tree/v3.6/simple-games): Users can use this case study to complete some simple and famous games.
- [Module display collection](https://github.com/cocos/cocos-test-projects): The example project of each function of the engine, which basically covers most of the function modules of the engine. Users can refer to it when using the functions Development in this project.
- [UI Show Demo](https://github.com/cocos/cocos-example-ui/): Demo of various UI components combined use Demo.
- [Jump Ball 3D](https://github.com/cocos/cocos-example-ball): Users can make jump ball games through this project.
- [Taxi Game 3D](https://github.com/cocos/cocos-tutorial-taxi-game): Physics-based game demo, users can make taxi games through this project.

## Third-party tools and resources for newcomers

### Code IDE

- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) Recommended coding environment for Cocos Creator.
- [WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/)

### Tools for generating texture packer

- [TexturePacker](https://www.codeandweb.com/texturepacker)
- [Zwoptex](https://zwopple.com/zwoptex/)

### Tools for generating Bitmap font

- [Glyph Designer](https://71squared.com/glyphdesigner)
- [Hiero](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/wiki/Hiero)
- [BMFont (Windows)](http://www.angelcode.com/products/bmfont/)

### 2D skeleton animation tools

- [Spine](http://www.esotericsoftware.com)
- [Spriter](http://brashmonkey.com/)
- [DragonBones](http://dragonbones.github.io/)

### Tools for making special effect particles

- [Particle Designer](http://particledesigner.71squared.com/)
- [Particle2dx](http://www.effecthub.com/particle2dx): Free online tool

### Other game development resources

- [Cocos Store](https://store.cocos.com/): Various game art assets, extension tools

## Send problems and feedback

Apart from the information provided in this guide, you can also obtain information from or send feedback to the Cocos Creator development group through the following channels at any time:

- [Cocos Creator Forum](https://discuss.cocos2d-x.org/c/33)
- [Cocos Tech Support](https://www.cocos.com/en/support)
<!-- - QQ group: 738190852-->

Commit message:

improve basic usage section (#2399)
re-wrote index.md
deleted attention/index.md in SUMMARY.md
added cases-and-tutorials
modified support.md
both in English and Chinese

Co-authored-by: qilinzi <jiangwei@cocos.com>
Co-authored-by: UniqueDisplayNameIsInUse <97574620+UniqueDisplayNameIsInUse@users.noreply.github.com>

en/getting-started/support.md, after:

# Get Help and Support

## Official Medias

More engine news, quality tutorials, and interviews can be viewed at [![twitter](support/twitter.png)](https://twitter.com/cocos2dx), [![facebook](support/facebook.png)](https://www.facebook.com/cocos2dx/) or [![youtube](support/youtube.png)](https://www.youtube.com/c/CocosEngine/videos).

## Send Issues and Feedbacks

Apart from the information provided in this guide, you can also obtain information from or send feedback to the Cocos team through the following channels at any time:

- [Cocos Forum](https://discuss.cocos2d-x.org)
- [Cocos Support](https://www.cocos.com/en/assistant)
<!-- - QQ group: 738190852-->
- [Submit PR for Cocos Engine on GitHub](../submit-pr/submit-pr.md)
- [Submit Issues for Cocos Engine on Github](https://github.com/cocos/cocos-engine/issues/new/choose)

## Third-party tools you may need

### Code IDE

- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) Recommended coding environment for Cocos Creator.
- [WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/)

### Tools for texture atlas

- [TexturePacker](https://www.codeandweb.com/texturepacker)
- [Zwoptex](https://zwopple.com/zwoptex/)

### Tools for Bitmap font

- [Glyph Designer](https://71squared.com/glyphdesigner)
- [Hiero](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/wiki/Hiero)
- [BMFont (Windows)](http://www.angelcode.com/products/bmfont/)

### Tools for 2D skeleton animation

- [Spine](http://www.esotericsoftware.com)
- [Spriter](http://brashmonkey.com/)
- [DragonBones](http://dragonbones.github.io/)

### Tools for 2D particles

- [Particle Designer](http://particledesigner.71squared.com/)
- [Particle2dx](http://www.effecthub.com/particle2dx): Free online tool
