en/editor/extension/package.md, before:

# Extended system

Before writing an extension, first understand the basic structure of extensions in **Cocos Creator**.

The **Cocos Creator** editor is based on the [Electron](https://github.com/atom/electron) kernel. Electron is a cross-platform development framework that integrates **Node.js** and **Chromium**.

In Electron's architecture, an application consists of a main process and a rendering process. The main process is responsible for managing platform-related scheduling, such as opening and closing windows, menu options, basic dialog boxes, and so on. Each newly opened window is an independent rendering process. In Electron, each process independently enjoys its own JavaScript content and cannot directly access each other. When you need to transfer data between processes, you need to use inter-process communication (IPC). Related functions can be read in the [Electron's introduction document](https://github.com/atom/electron/blob/master/docs/tutorial/quick-start.md) to have a deeper understanding of the main process and rendering process in Electron relationship. To put it simply, the main process of Electron is equivalent to a Node.js server program, and each window (rendering process) is equivalent to a client web program.

The **Cocos Creator** editor follows the structural design of Electron's main process and rendering process. When the extension starts and runs in the editor, the main defined by the extension is actually started in the main process, and the panel defined by panels is started in the rendering process. The process structure is briefly summarized as follows:

```
Browser
  |- panelA
  |- panelB
  ...
```

## Communication

As previously mentioned, the JavaScript content between the two processes is independent of each other, and data must be exchanged by means of inter-process communication. Inter-process communication is actually the process of sending messages in one process, and then listening for messages in another process. Electron provides modules ipcMain and ipcRenderer corresponding to inter-process communication to help us accomplish this task. Since these two modules only complete very basic communication functions, and cannot meet the communication requirements between the editor, the expansion panel and the main process, **Cocos Creator** has been encapsulated on top of this, and the inter-process messaging is expanded. The method is convenient for extension developers and editor developers to create more complex scenarios. For more instructions, please see the [Message](./messages.md) documentation.

## Extended Ability

The extension has a complete nodejs environment, which makes it easy to use a large number of tools on the npm market. Used to complete the function you want.

If you need to interact with other functions, you need to open the corresponding operation message for the corresponding function. In extensions, use the [messages](messages.md) to trigger, query, and process the functions or data in the editor. The open message list can be viewed in the top menu **Developer -> Message List** panel.

In addition, you can also use some tools to facilitate the development of extensions, such as:

1. Use TypeScript to develop extensions. After compiling into js, ​​fill the compiled js into `package.json` for the editor to run.
2. After the template rendering in the panel is completed, use vue to bind the data to facilitate interactive development of the panel.

The extension only agrees to the entrance, during which a large number of external libraries can be used to optimize the development process.

Commit message:

V3.6-merge extension translate  (#2222)
* useCompressTexture 写错 (#2170)

* 修复文字错误 (#2173)

* V3.5 release (#2183)

* 修复文字错误

* 修复:拼写错误

* V3.5 release (#2184)

* 修复文字错误

* issue fix  (#2185)

修复部分用户提交的 issue

* add android upgrade doc at 3.5 version (#2197)

* add android upgrade doc at 3.5 version

* 3.5 已构建项目升级指南 (#2198)

* 文字错误 (#2200)

* remove misstatement at native-upgrade-to-v3.5 (#2202)

* marionette mask 图片错误 (#2205)

* 文字错误

* marionette 的 mask 图片错误

* V3.5 release (#2213)

merge from 3.4

* V3.5 release trans extension (#2163)

* translate extension

* 格式文字修复

* 格式修改

* typo z-fiting (#2175)

Z-Fighting

* V3.5 release-translate sprite-frame (#2176)

* sprite-frame英文文档翻译

Co-authored-by: bofeng-song <bofeng.song@chukong-inc.com>
Co-authored-by: lamyoung <273404202@qq.com>
Co-authored-by: YT <92207273+lilyyang5@users.noreply.github.com>

en/editor/extension/package.md, after:

# Extension Infrastructure

Before writing an extension, we first need to understand the infrastructure of extensions within Cocos Creator.

## Electron

The Cocos Creator editor is based on the [Electron](https://github.com/atom/electron) kernel from GitHub.

Electron is a cross-platform development framework that integrates with [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and [Google Chromium](https://github.com/chromium/chromium).

## Multi-process Mechanism

In Electron's architecture, an application consists of a main process and a rendering process, with the main process managing platform-related scheduling, such as window opening and closing, menu options, basic dialogs, and so on. Each newly opened window is a separate rendering process. Each process has its own JavaScript content and is not directly accessible to each other. When data needs to be passed between processes, the Inter-Process Communication (IPC) mechanism is used.

You can read [Electron's introduction document](https://github.com/atom/electron/blob/master/docs/tutorial/quick-start.md) for a more in-depth understanding of the features The relationship between the main process and the rendering process in Electron.

To put it simply, the main process in Electron is equivalent to a Node.js server application, while each window (rendering process) is equivalent to a client-side web application.

The Cocos Creator editor follows the structure of Electron's main process and rendering process. So when the extension is started and run inside the editor, the main defined by the extension is actually started in the main process, while the panels defined by the panels are started in the rendering process. The process structure is briefly summarized as follows.

![electron-process](./image/electron-process.png)

## Inter-process Communication

Inter-process communication is actually the process of sending a message in one process and listening to it in another process.

Electron provides modules `ipcMain` and `ipcRenderer` for inter-process communication to help us with this task.

Since these two modules only perform very basic communication functions and do not satisfy the communication needs between the editor, extension panel and the main process, Cocos Creator wraps this and extends the method of sending and receiving messages between processes to make it easier for extension developers and editor developers to create more complex scenarios. For more details, please see the documentation [Message System](./messages.md).

## Capabilities of extensions

With a full Node.js environment inside the extension, it is easy to use the large number of tools available on the npm marketplace for the functionality you want.

If you need to interact with other features, you need to open up the corresponding operation messages for the corresponding features, and we do this within our own extension, via [Message System](./messages.md) to trigger, query and process functions or data in the editor.

The list of opened messages can be viewed in the top menu **Developer -> Message Manager** panel, as shown below.

![extension-message-mgr-menu](./image/extension-message-mgr-menu.png)

![extension-message-mgr-panel](./image/extension-message-mgr-panel.png)
