en/scripting/access-node-component.md, before:

# Access Nodes and Components

You can modify __Nodes__ and __Components__ in the **Inspector** panel, and also dynamically using scripts. The advantage of dynamic modification is that it can continuously modify attributes and transition attributes within a period of time to achieve gradual effects. Scripts can also respond to player input, modify, create and destroy __Nodes__ or __Components__, and implement various game logic. To achieve these effects, developers need to obtain the __Node__ or __Component__ that needs to be modified in the script.

## Document topics

- Obtain the node where the component is located.
- Obtain other components.
- Use **Inspector** panel to set up nodes and components.
- Find child nodes.
- Global node search.
- Access values in existing variables.

## Obtain the node where the component is located

It's easy to get the node where the component is. Just access the `this.node` variable in the component method:
```ts
    start(){
        let node = this.node;
        node.setPosition(0.0,0.0,0.0);
    }
```

## Obtaining other components

It will often be need to get other components on the same node. Use the `getComponent` API, which will help to find the component that is needed.

```ts
import { _decorator, Component, LabelComponent } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("test")
export class test extends Component {
    private label: any = null

    start(){
        this.label = this.getComponent(LabelComponent);
        let text = this.name + 'started';
        // Change the text in Label Component
        this.label.string = text;
    }
}
```

It is also possible to pass in a class name for `getComponent`. For user-defined components, the class name is the file name of the script and is **case sensitive**. For example, the component declared in `SinRotate.ts`, the class name is `SinRotate`.

```ts
    let rotate = this.getComponent("SinRotate");
```

There is also ther `getComponent` method on the node, and their functions are the same:

```ts
    start() {
        console.log( this.node.getComponent(LabelComponent) === this.getComponent(LabelComponent) );  // true
    }
```

If the component that is needed is not found on the node, `getComponent` will return `null`. If you try to access the value of `null`, a __TypeError__ error will be thrown at runtime. If you are not sure whether the component exists, please remember to check:

```ts
import { _decorator, Component, LabelComponent } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("test")
export class test extends Component {
    private label: any =null;

    start() {
        this.label = this.getComponent(LabelComponent);
        if (this.label) {
            this.label.string = "Hello";
        } else {
            console.error("Something wrong?");
        }
    }
}
```

## Get other nodes and their components

It is usually not enough to only have access to the node's own components, and scripts usually require interaction between multiple nodes. For example, a cannon that automatically aims at the player needs to constantly obtain the latest position of the player. __Cocos Creator__ provides some different methods to obtain other nodes or components.

### Use the Inspector panel to set the node

The most straightforward way is to set the objects you need in the **Inspector** panel. Take node as an example, this only needs to declare an attribute with type `Node` in the script:

```ts
// Cannon.ts

import { _decorator, Component, Node } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("Cannon")
export class Cannon extends Component {
    // Declare Player properties
    @property({type:Node})
    private player = null;
}
```

This code declares a `player` property in `properties`, the default value is `null`, and its object type is specified as `Node`. This is equivalent to declaring `public Node player = null;` in other languages. After the script is compiled, this component looks like this in the **Inspector** panel:

![player-in-inspector-null](access-node-component/player-in-inspector-null.png)

Then you can drag any node on the __Hierarchy__ panel to the `Player` control:

![player-in-inspector](access-node-component/player-in-inspector.png)

The `Player` property will be set successfully, and can be accessed directly in a script. Example:

```ts
// Cannon.ts

import { _decorator, Component, Node } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("Cannon")
export class Cannon extends Component {

    @property({type:Node})
    private player = null;

    start() {
        console.log('The player is ' + this.player.name);
    }
}
```

### Use the Inspector panel to set up components

In the above example, if the type of the attribute is declared as a `Player` component, when the `Player` node is dragged to the **Inspector** panel, the `Player` attribute will be set to the `Player` component in this node. This way developers don't need to call `getComponent()` themselves.

```ts
// Cannon.ts

import { _decorator, Component } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;
import { Player } from "Player";

@ccclass("Cannon")
export class Cannon extends Component {
    @property({type:Player})
    private player = null;

    start(){
        let PlayerComp = this.player;
    }
}
```

The default value of the property can be changed from `null` to array `[]`, so that multiple objects in the **Inspector** panel can be set at the same time. However, if dynamically obtaining other objects at runtime is needed, it is also necessary to use the search method described below.

### Find child nodes

Sometimes, there are many objects of the same type in the game scene, such as turrets, enemies, and special effects, and they usually have a global script to manage them uniformly. Using the **Inspector** panel to associate them with this script one by one, the work will be very tedious. In-order to better manage these objects uniformly, they can be put under a unified parent object, and then obtain all the child objects through the parent object:

```ts
// CannonManager.ts

import { _decorator, Component, Node } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("CannonManager")
export class CannonManager extends Component {

    start() {
        let cannons = this.node.children;
        //...
    }

}
```

Using `getChildByName`:

```ts
this.node.getChildByName("Cannon 01");
```

If the child node has a deeper level, `find` can be used, and  will search step by step according to the path passed in:

```ts
find("Cannon 01/Barrel/SFX", this.node);
```

### Global name lookup

When `find` only passes in the first parameter, it will be searched step by step from the scene root node:

```ts
this.backNode = find("Canvas/Menu/Back");
```

## Accessing values in existing variables

If you have saved references to nodes or components in one place, you can also access them directly.

### Accessing via module

Use `import` to implement script cross-file operations. Example:

```ts
// Global.ts, now the filename matters
import { _decorator, Component, Node } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("Global")
export class Global extends Component {

    public static backNode:any=null;
    public static backLabel:any=null;
}
```

Each script can use `import{} from` + file name (without path) to get the object of the other party's exports. Example:

```ts
// Back.ts
import { _decorator, Component, Node, LabelComponent } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;
// this feels more safe since you know where the object comes from
import{Global}from "./Global";

@ccclass("Back")
export class Back extends Component {
    onLoad(){
        Global.backNode=this.node;
        Global.backLabel=this.getComponent(LabelComponent);
    }
}
```

```ts
// AnyScript.ts
import { _decorator, Component, Node } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;
// this feels more safe since you know where the object comes from
import{Global}from "./Global";

@ccclass("AnyScript")
export class AnyScript extends Component {
    start () {
        const text = "Back";
        Global.backLabel.string=text;
    }
}
```

Commit message:

attribute -> property (#1785)
* attribute -> property

* refinements from Panda feedback

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: yufang.wu <2435731537@qq.com>

en/scripting/access-node-component.md, after:

# Access Nodes and Components

You can modify __Nodes__ and __Components__ in the **Inspector** panel, and also dynamically using scripts. The advantage of dynamic modification is that it can continuously modify properties and transition properties within a period of time to achieve gradual effects. Scripts can also respond to player input, modify, create and destroy __Nodes__ or __Components__, and implement various game logic. To achieve these effects, developers need to obtain the __Node__ or __Component__ that needs to be modified in the script.

## Document topics

- Obtain the node where the component is located.
- Obtain other components.
- Use **Inspector** panel to set up nodes and components.
- Find child nodes.
- Global node search.
- Access values in existing variables.

## Obtain the node where the component is located

It's easy to get the node where the component is. Just access the `this.node` variable in the component method:
```ts
    start(){
        let node = this.node;
        node.setPosition(0.0,0.0,0.0);
    }
```

## Obtaining other components

It will often be need to get other components on the same node. Use the `getComponent` API, which will help to find the component that is needed.

```ts
import { _decorator, Component, LabelComponent } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("test")
export class test extends Component {
    private label: any = null

    start(){
        this.label = this.getComponent(LabelComponent);
        let text = this.name + 'started';
        // Change the text in Label Component
        this.label.string = text;
    }
}
```

It is also possible to pass in a class name for `getComponent`. For user-defined components, the class name is the file name of the script and is **case sensitive**. For example, the component declared in `SinRotate.ts`, the class name is `SinRotate`.

```ts
    let rotate = this.getComponent("SinRotate");
```

There is also ther `getComponent` method on the node, and their functions are the same:

```ts
    start() {
        console.log( this.node.getComponent(LabelComponent) === this.getComponent(LabelComponent) );  // true
    }
```

If the component that is needed is not found on the node, `getComponent` will return `null`. If you try to access the value of `null`, a __TypeError__ error will be thrown at runtime. If you are not sure whether the component exists, please remember to check:

```ts
import { _decorator, Component, LabelComponent } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("test")
export class test extends Component {
    private label: any =null;

    start() {
        this.label = this.getComponent(LabelComponent);
        if (this.label) {
            this.label.string = "Hello";
        } else {
            console.error("Something wrong?");
        }
    }
}
```

## Get other nodes and their components

It is usually not enough to only have access to the node's own components, and scripts usually require interaction between multiple nodes. For example, a cannon that automatically aims at the player needs to constantly obtain the latest position of the player. __Cocos Creator__ provides some different methods to obtain other nodes or components.

### Use the Inspector panel to set the node

The most straightforward way is to set the objects you need in the **Inspector** panel. Take node as an example, this only needs to declare an property with type `Node` in the script:

```ts
// Cannon.ts

import { _decorator, Component, Node } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("Cannon")
export class Cannon extends Component {
    // Declare Player properties
    @property({type:Node})
    private player = null;
}
```

This code declares a `player` property in `properties`, the default value is `null`, and its object type is specified as `Node`. This is equivalent to declaring `public Node player = null;` in other languages. After the script is compiled, this component looks like this in the **Inspector** panel:

![player-in-inspector-null](access-node-component/player-in-inspector-null.png)

Then you can drag any node on the __Hierarchy__ panel to the `Player` control:

![player-in-inspector](access-node-component/player-in-inspector.png)

The `Player` property will be set successfully, and can be accessed directly in a script. Example:

```ts
// Cannon.ts

import { _decorator, Component, Node } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("Cannon")
export class Cannon extends Component {

    @property({type:Node})
    private player = null;

    start() {
        console.log('The player is ' + this.player.name);
    }
}
```

### Use the Inspector panel to set up components

In the above example, if the type of the property is declared as a `Player` component, when the `Player` node is dragged to the **Inspector** panel, the `Player` property will be set to the `Player` component in this node. This way developers don't need to call `getComponent()` themselves.

```ts
// Cannon.ts

import { _decorator, Component } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;
import { Player } from "Player";

@ccclass("Cannon")
export class Cannon extends Component {
    @property({type:Player})
    private player = null;

    start(){
        let PlayerComp = this.player;
    }
}
```

The default value of the property can be changed from `null` to array `[]`, so that multiple objects in the **Inspector** panel can be set at the same time. However, if dynamically obtaining other objects at runtime is needed, it is also necessary to use the search method described below.

### Find child nodes

Sometimes, there are many objects of the same type in the game scene, such as turrets, enemies, and special effects, and they usually have a global script to manage them uniformly. Using the **Inspector** panel to associate them with this script one by one, the work will be very tedious. In-order to better manage these objects uniformly, they can be put under a unified parent object, and then obtain all the child objects through the parent object:

```ts
// CannonManager.ts

import { _decorator, Component, Node } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("CannonManager")
export class CannonManager extends Component {

    start() {
        let cannons = this.node.children;
        //...
    }

}
```

Using `getChildByName`:

```ts
this.node.getChildByName("Cannon 01");
```

If the child node has a deeper level, `find` can be used, and  will search step by step according to the path passed in:

```ts
find("Cannon 01/Barrel/SFX", this.node);
```

### Global name lookup

When `find` only passes in the first parameter, it will be searched step by step from the scene root node:

```ts
this.backNode = find("Canvas/Menu/Back");
```

## Accessing values in existing variables

If you have saved references to nodes or components in one place, you can also access them directly.

### Accessing via module

Use `import` to implement script cross-file operations. Example:

```ts
// Global.ts, now the filename matters
import { _decorator, Component, Node } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;

@ccclass("Global")
export class Global extends Component {

    public static backNode:any=null;
    public static backLabel:any=null;
}
```

Each script can use `import{} from` + file name (without path) to get the object of the other party's exports. Example:

```ts
// Back.ts
import { _decorator, Component, Node, LabelComponent } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;
// this feels more safe since you know where the object comes from
import{Global}from "./Global";

@ccclass("Back")
export class Back extends Component {
    onLoad(){
        Global.backNode=this.node;
        Global.backLabel=this.getComponent(LabelComponent);
    }
}
```

```ts
// AnyScript.ts
import { _decorator, Component, Node } from 'cc';
const { ccclass, property } = _decorator;
// this feels more safe since you know where the object comes from
import{Global}from "./Global";

@ccclass("AnyScript")
export class AnyScript extends Component {
    start () {
        const text = "Back";
        Global.backLabel.string=text;
    }
}
```
