en/physics/physics.md, before:

# Physics 3D Introduction

__Cocos Creator__ currently supports the lightweight collision detection system __builtin__ and the physics engine __cannon.js__ with physical simulation, and the __asm.js__/__wasm__ version __ammo.js__ of the powerful physics engine __bullet__, also we provides users with efficient and unified component-based workflow and convenient methods of use.

## Physics World And Elements

Elements in the physics world can be divided into **rigid body**. We can adding physics elements by adding a collider (__Collider__) or rigid body (__RigidBody__) component to the game object. The physics system will perform calculations on these elements to make their behaviors the same with the real world.

> **Note**: the __rigid body__ here doesn't refer to the __RigidBody__ component. The __RigidBody__ component is used to control the properties related to the physical behavior of the rigid body.

### Adding a Physical Element

Adding a physical element to the world can be divided int the following steps:

1. Create a new shape __Cube__;
2. Click __Add Component__ on the __Inspector__ panel witch is on the right of editor;
3. Select __BoxCollider__ under the __Physics__ menu, and adjust the parameters;
4. add a __RigidBody__ component in order to make it have physical behavior.

In this way we get a physical element that has **both a collider and a physical behavior**.

### Perfecting The Physics World

We can add a ground to the world. Following the steps 1,2,and 3, you can add another __Plane__ with **collider only**.

Then, adjust the view of the camera (select the camera and press the shortcut __Ctrl + Shift + F__ to align the camera view to screen).

Finally, click the run button, you can see the changes of physical elements in the scene. The final scene is shown in the following figure:

![physics world](img/physics.jpg)

### Composition Of Physical Elements

A physical element can be composed of the following ways:

- A __RigidBody__ component
- One or more __Collider__ components
- One __RigidBody__ component plus one or more collider components

## More Detailed Modules

Additional physics system will be introduced in more detail through the following modules:

Module | Description
---|---
[**Physics Options**](physics-item.md) | Introduces the optional options of low-level physics engine in **Cocos Creator**
[**Physics System**](physics-system.md) | Introduces the physics system and a series of properties and interfaces of the physics system.
[**Physics Component**](physics-component.md) | Introduces some physics components and a series of properties on the panel.
[**Physics Usage**](physics-use.md) | Further introduces the use of physics, events, group masks, etc.

Commit message:

V3.6-merge extension translate  (#2222)
* useCompressTexture 写错 (#2170)

* 修复文字错误 (#2173)

* V3.5 release (#2183)

* 修复文字错误

* 修复:拼写错误

* V3.5 release (#2184)

* 修复文字错误

* issue fix  (#2185)

修复部分用户提交的 issue

* add android upgrade doc at 3.5 version (#2197)

* add android upgrade doc at 3.5 version

* 3.5 已构建项目升级指南 (#2198)

* 文字错误 (#2200)

* remove misstatement at native-upgrade-to-v3.5 (#2202)

* marionette mask 图片错误 (#2205)

* 文字错误

* marionette 的 mask 图片错误

* V3.5 release (#2213)

merge from 3.4

* V3.5 release trans extension (#2163)

* translate extension

* 格式文字修复

* 格式修改

* typo z-fiting (#2175)

Z-Fighting

* V3.5 release-translate sprite-frame (#2176)

* sprite-frame英文文档翻译

Co-authored-by: bofeng-song <bofeng.song@chukong-inc.com>
Co-authored-by: lamyoung <273404202@qq.com>
Co-authored-by: YT <92207273+lilyyang5@users.noreply.github.com>

en/physics/physics.md, after:

# 3D Physics System

## Introduction

![physics-system](img/physics-system.jpg)

The physics system is to assign real-world physical properties (gravity, thrust, etc.) to the game world and abstract it as a rigid-body model, so that game objects, under the action of forces, emulate real-world motion and the collision process between them. That is, on top of the classical Newtonian mechanics model, the motion, rotation and collision of game objects are calculated through API.

Cocos Creator supports the following physics engines.

- **ammo.js**: default physics engine, asm.js/wasm version of [Bullet](https://pybullet.org/wordpress/). A physics engine with collision detection and physics simulation.
- **builtin**: built-in physics engine, lightweight engine for collision detection only.
- **cannon.js**: physics engine with collision detection and physics simulation.
- **PhysX**: Game physics engine developed by [NVIDIA](https://developer.nvidia.com/physx-sdk). A physics engine with collision detection and physics simulation.

Developers choose different physics engines according to their development needs for physics features or application scenarios, please refer to: [Physics Engines](physics-engine.md) for details.

> **Note**: PhysX is not supported in earlyer versions. To use PhysX please make sure the engine is upgraded to the latest version.

## Physics Worlds

Each element in the physics world can be understood as a separate **rigid body**, which can be made physical in Cocos Creator 3.x by adding a [Collider](physics-collider.md) or [RigidBody](physics-rigidbody.md) to the game object. Gives physics elements their physical properties. The physics system will perform physics calculations for these elements, such as calculating whether the objects collide and what forces are applied to the objects. When the calculations are complete, the physics system will update the physics world to the scene world, simulating the physical behavior that is restored in the real world.

Scene world and physics world:

![Scene World vs. Physics World](img/physics-world.jpg)

> **Note**: The "rigid body"  here refers to an object in the physics world that remains unchanged in shape and size and whose relative positions of internal points remain unchanged while in motion or after being acted upon by a force.

### Physics Work Flow

After all components are `lateUpdate`, the engine will synchronize the nodes holding physical properties (rigid body component, collider component) to the physics world and drive the physics engine to simulate them, and then synchronize the results calculated by the physics engine to each node of the scene after the simulation is completed. The overall process is shown in the following figure:

![phy](img/physics-pipeline.png)

## Add Physics Elements

![add-element](img/physics-element.png)

Adding a physics element to the game world can be done in the following steps:

1. Create a new node. Here create a new cube model **Cube**.
2. Add a collider component, here add a [BoxCollider](physics-collider.md#BoxCollider). Click the **Add Component** button at the bottom of the **Inspector** panel, select **BoxCollider** in the **Physics** directory and adjust the parameters.
3. To give it a physical behavior, then add a [RigidBody](physics-rigidbody.md) component.

This gives us a physics element with **both collider and physics behavior**.
