en/editor/publish/index.md, before:

# Cross-Platform Game Publishing

Cocos Creator currently supports publishing games to the Web, iOS, Android, Windows, Mac, and various mini-game platforms. Developers can develop on one platform and deploy on all supported platforms.

## Preparation

The preparation that needs to be done before publishing includes getting familiar with following concepts:

- [Build Panel](build-panel.md)
- [Build Options](build-options.md)

## Publishing Platforms

Currently, Cocos Creator supports publishing to Web, Native and mini-game platforms. Please refer to the following documentation for details:

- [Publish to Web Platforms](publish-web.md)
- [Publish to Native Platforms](native-options.md)
- [Publish to Mini Game Platforms](publish-mini-game.md)

Developers can also publish projects via the command line. For details, please refer to the [Publish from the Command Line](publish-in-command-line.md) documentation.

## Advanced

If you have a certain degree of familiarity and understanding of the build process, it is possible customize the build template and extend the build process. For details, please refer to the following documents:

- [Introduction to the Build Process and FAQ](build-guide.md)
- [Custom Project Build Process](custom-project-build-template.md)
- [Extended Build Process](custom-build-plugin.md)

Commit message:

V3.7 release native build related updates (#2612)
* native build related updates.

* summary.md + build doc for windows

* misc modify

* android related docs polished

* misc updates

* remove unnecessary 'Cocos2d-x'

* translate to en

* pixelate some pictures

* translate to en

* all done

* add http.md

* Update build-options-windows.md

* Update native-options.md

* Update build-options-mac.md

* Update build-example-mac.md

* Update build-options-ios.md

* Update build-example-ios.md

* Update index.md

* Update build-setup-evn-android.md

* Update build-example-android.md

* Update thread-safety.md

* Update supported-versions.md

* Update oc-reflection.md

* Update native-secondary-development.md

* Update js-oc-bridge.md

* Update java-reflection.md

* Update engine-customization.md

* Update SUMMARY.md

* Update build-example-windows.md

* Update build-options-mac.md

* Update build-example-mac.md

* Update build-options-ios.md

* Update build-example-ios.md

* Update build-setup-evn-android.md

* Update build-options-android.md

* Update supported-versions.md

* Update oc-reflection.md

* Update java-reflection.md

---------

Co-authored-by: qilinzi <jiangwei@cocos.com>
Co-authored-by: UniqueDisplayNameIsInUse <97574620+UniqueDisplayNameIsInUse@users.noreply.github.com>

en/editor/publish/index.md, after:

# Publish to Multiple Platforms

Thanks to the Cocos Creator's dual-core engine architecture (the C++ core is for native platforms and the TS core is for web and mini-game platform), projects created with Cocos Creator can run smoothly on native, web, and mini-game platforms. This truly achieves the goal of developing once, run everywhere.

## Supported Platforms

- [iOS](./ios/index.md)
- [Android](./android/index.md)
- [Huawei HarmonyOS](./publish-huawei-ohos.md)
- [Open HarmonyOS](./publish-openharmony.md)
- [Web Mobile - H5](./publish-web.md)
- [WeChat Mini Games](./publish-wechatgame.md)
- [ByteDance Mini Games](./publish-bytedance-mini-game.md)
- [Facebook Instant Games](./publish-fb-instant-games.md)
- [OPPO Mini Games](./publish-oppo-mini-game.md)
- [Huawei Quick Games](./publish-huawei-quick-game.md)
- [vivo Mini Games](./publish-vivo-mini-game.md)
- [Xiaomi Quick Games](./publish-xiaomi-quick-game.md)
- [Web Web Desktop](publish-web.md)
- [Windows](./windows/index.md)
- [macOS](./ios/index.md)

## Preparation

The preparation that needs to be done before publishing includes getting familiar with following concepts:

- [Build Panel](build-panel.md)
- [Build Options](build-options.md)

Developers can also publish projects via the command line. For details, please refer to the [Publish from the Command Line](publish-in-command-line.md) documentation.

## Advanced

If you have a certain degree of familiarity and understanding of the build process, it is possible customize the build template and extend the build process. For details, please refer to the following documents:

- [Introduction to the Build Process and FAQ](build-guide.md)
- [Custom Project Build Process](custom-project-build-template.md)
- [Extended Build Process](custom-build-plugin.md)

## Additional Resources

- [Cocos Technical Support](https://www.cocos.com/en/assistant)
- [Cocos Official Forum](https://discuss.cocos2d-x.org/)
