en/editor/publish/publish-web.md, before:

# Publish to Web Platforms

Select **Project -> Build** from the main menu, and open the [Build](build-panel.md) panel.

![web](publish-web/web.png)

Cocos Creator provides two web platform page templates. Select **Web Mobile** or **Web Desktop** through the drop-down menu of **Platform**. The main differences between them are:

- **Web Mobile** will fill the entire browser window with the game view by default.
- **Web Desktop** allows to specify the resolution of a game view when publishing, and the game view will not change with the browser window size afterwards.

## Introduction to Build Options

For the general build options of each platform, please refer to the [General Build Options Introduction](build-options.md) documentation for details.

### Web Desktop

| Build options | Description | Field name (for command line publishing) |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Resource Server Address | The server address used to download remote resources. For details, please refer to the content of the **Resource Server Address** section below. | `remoteServerAddress` |
| Preview resolution | Game view resolution, the default is **(1280, 960)** | `resolution` |
| Polyfills | Build supports polyfills of some new features of scripts. Corresponding processing will be done when scripts are packaged. Developers can choose the polyfills to use according to actual needs. For the time being, only **Async Functions** are supported, and more functions will be opened in the future. | `polyfills` |

### Web Mobile

| Build options | Description | Field name (for command line publishing) |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Resource Server Address | The server address used to download remote resources. For details, please refer to the content of the **Resource Server Address** section below. | `remoteServerAddress` |
| Orientation | Optional values ​​include **Auto**, **Landscape**, **Portrait** | `orientation` |
| Polyfills | Build supports polyfills of some new features of scripts. Corresponding processing will be done when scripts are packaged. Currently, there are **async Functions** and **coreJs**. Developers can choose the polyfills to use according to actual needs. | `polyfills` |
| vConsole | Insert the vConsole debugging plug-in. vConsole is similar to the mini version of DevTools for assisting debugging. | `embedWebDebugger` |
| Preview the QR code | Used to scan and preview, see the introduction below for details |-|
| Preview URL | Link for preview, see the introduction below for details |-|

- **Resource server address**

  This option is optional and used to fill in the address where the resource is stored on the server.

    - If **do not fill in**, the `remote` folder in the release package directory will be packaged into the built game package.
    - If **fill in**, it will not be packaged into the game package. Developers need to manually upload the `remote` folder in the release package directory to the resource server address filled in after the build. For details, please refer to [Upload resources to a remote server](../../asset/cache-manager.md).

- **Preview URL**

  The build supports simultaneous previewing of multiple Web projects, so the preview URL to be built is no longer uniform, but each build task will have a separate preview URL, which does not interfere with each other. Click the URL to automatically open the browser for preview. The specific preview URL splicing rule is **${Preview IP address in Preferences panel}:${Editor preview port number}/${Build platform}/${Build task name}/index.html**.

  ![preview-url](publish-web/preview-url.png)

## Build and Preview

After configuring the build options, click the **Build** button to start the web platform version build. A progress bar will appear on the panel. When the progress bar shows **Build success**, the build is complete.

Next, click the **Run** button to open the built game version in the browser for preview and debugging.

![web mobile](publish-web/web-mobile.png)

The picture above is the preview of the Web Mobile platform. Notice that the game view occupies the entire browser window, while the game view of Web Desktop has a fixed resolution and will not fill the screen.

### Browser Compatibility

The desktop browsers tested during the development of Cocos Creator include: **Chrome**, **Firefox** and **QQ Browser**. Other browsers can be used normally as long as the kernel version is high enough. For the browser, please do not enable IE compatibility mode.

Browsers tested on mobile devices include: **Safari (iOS)**, **Chrome (Android)**, **QQ Browser (Android)** and **UC Browser (Android)**.

## Retina Settings

Set whether to use high resolution through `view.enableRetina(true)` in the script. Retina display will be turned on by default when it is built on the Web platform. For details, please refer to the [enableRetina](__APIDOC__/en/class/View?id=enableRetina) API.

## Publish to Web Server

To publish or share the game on the Internet, just click the **folder icon** button at the bottom left of the **Build Task**, and after opening the release path, follow the name of the current build task to build the corresponding folder in the the entire content is copied to the Web server and can be accessed through the corresponding address.

![web mobile](publish-web/web-folder.png)

Regarding the establishment of the Web server, search for related solutions such as Apache, Nginx, IIS, Express, etc.

Commit message:

webgpu building option (#2311)
* wgpu usage

* markdown lint

* missing translation

* remove build opts from catagory

* complete build options

* plural grammar

* missing file

* expression

en/editor/publish/publish-web.md, after:

# Publish to Web Platforms

Select **Project -> Build** from the main menu, and open the [Build](build-panel.md) panel.

![web](publish-web/web.png)

Cocos Creator provides two web platform page templates. Select **Web Mobile** or **Web Desktop** through the drop-down menu of **Platform**. The main differences between them are:

- **Web Mobile** will fill the entire browser window with the game view by default.
- **Web Desktop** allows to specify the resolution of a game view when publishing, and the game view will not change with the browser window size afterwards.

## Introduction to Build Options

For the general build options of each platform, please refer to the [General Build Options Introduction](build-options.md) documentation for details.

### Web Desktop

| Build options | Description | Field name (for command line publishing) |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Resource Server Address | The server address used to download remote resources. For details, please refer to the content of the **Resource Server Address** section below. | `remoteServerAddress` |
| WEBGPU | Whether use WebGPU as rendering backend | `WEBGPU` |
| Preview resolution | Game view resolution, the default is **(1280, 960)** | `resolution` |
| Polyfills | Build supports polyfills of some new features of scripts. Corresponding processing will be done when scripts are packaged. Developers can choose the polyfills to use according to actual needs. For the time being, only **Async Functions** are supported, and more functions will be opened in the future. | `polyfills` |

### Web Mobile

| Build options | Description | Field name (for command line publishing) |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Resource Server Address | The server address used to download remote resources. For details, please refer to the content of the **Resource Server Address** section below. | `remoteServerAddress` |
| Orientation | Optional values ​​include **Auto**, **Landscape**, **Portrait** | `orientation` |
| Polyfills | Build supports polyfills of some new features of scripts. Corresponding processing will be done when scripts are packaged. Currently, there are **async Functions** and **coreJs**. Developers can choose the polyfills to use according to actual needs. | `polyfills` |
| vConsole | Insert the vConsole debugging plug-in. vConsole is similar to the mini version of DevTools for assisting debugging. | `embedWebDebugger` |
| Preview the QR code | Used to scan and preview, see the introduction below for details |-|
| Preview URL | Link for preview, see the introduction below for details |-|

- **Resource server address**

  This option is optional and used to fill in the address where the resource is stored on the server.

    - If **do not fill in**, the `remote` folder in the release package directory will be packaged into the built game package.
    - If **fill in**, it will not be packaged into the game package. Developers need to manually upload the `remote` folder in the release package directory to the resource server address filled in after the build. For details, please refer to [Upload resources to a remote server](../../asset/cache-manager.md).

- **Preview URL**

  The build supports simultaneous previewing of multiple Web projects, so the preview URL to be built is no longer uniform, but each build task will have a separate preview URL, which does not interfere with each other. Click the URL to automatically open the browser for preview. The specific preview URL splicing rule is **${Preview IP address in Preferences panel}:${Editor preview port number}/${Build platform}/${Build task name}/index.html**.

  ![preview-url](publish-web/preview-url.png)

## Build and Preview

After configuring the build options, click the **Build** button to start the web platform version build. A progress bar will appear on the panel. When the progress bar shows **Build success**, the build is complete.

Next, click the **Run** button to open the built game version in the browser for preview and debugging.

![web mobile](publish-web/web-mobile.png)

The picture above is the preview of the Web Mobile platform. Notice that the game view occupies the entire browser window, while the game view of Web Desktop has a fixed resolution and will not fill the screen.

### WebGPU Support (Experimental)

[WebGPU](https://www.w3.org/TR/webgpu/) is the next generation GPU API for the web. Cocos Creator supports WebGPU as rendering backend for building Web-Desktop since 3.6.2, just enable `WebGPU` option in the build panel when building Web-Desktop.
The build process will be a little bit different with `WebGPU` option enabled. Normal builtin server won't work for `WebGPU` package. When building done, you need to locate the package folder by clicking the folder icon in the build panel. Then you can either start an http-server or nginx server to make an accessible address for the supported browsers.
As WebGPU standard is still a working draft, it's not widely supported on all browsers yet. So please remember to check the compatibility of WebGPU on your browser, see chapter **Browser Compatibility** below for details.

### Browser Compatibility

The desktop browsers tested during the development of Cocos Creator include: **Chrome**, **Firefox** and **QQ Browser**. Other browsers can be used normally as long as the kernel version is high enough. For the browser, please do not enable IE compatibility mode.

Browsers tested on mobile devices include: **Safari (iOS)**, **Chrome (Android)**, **QQ Browser (Android)** and **UC Browser (Android)**.

When you build Web-Desktop platform with `WEBGPU` option enabled, only certain versions of chromium is supported currently.
Chromium history version is available [here](https://vikyd.github.io/download-chromium-history-version/#/), any version greater than 105 should be well supported by Cocos Creator's WebGPU build.
After chromium is opened, visit `chrome://flags` in the address bar, then enable `WebGPU Developer Features` and reopen chromium, then everything is set for you to try your project rendered with WebGPU.

## Retina Settings

Set whether to use high resolution through `view.enableRetina(true)` in the script. Retina display will be turned on by default when it is built on the Web platform. For details, please refer to the [enableRetina](__APIDOC__/en/class/View?id=enableRetina) API.

## Publish to Web Server

To publish or share the game on the Internet, just click the **folder icon** button at the bottom left of the **Build Task**, and after opening the release path, follow the name of the current build task to build the corresponding folder in the the entire content is copied to the Web server and can be accessed through the corresponding address.

![web mobile](publish-web/web-folder.png)

Regarding the establishment of the Web server, search for related solutions such as Apache, Nginx, IIS, Express, etc.
